# Alumni_Management_App
 Docker-based Application NGINX (Proxy) - Node.js (Backend) - Redis (Database)

## Description
This Docker based web-application that provides a solution to an Alumni Management System.
It let's the user create / edit or update / delete / show BINFO-CEP alumni contact information. A "BINFO-CEP alumni" object has (at least) a unique ID, a person name, the information about the current and possibly past employers, study start and end dates and a short description. All these objects are stored within a Redis DB.

### How?
1.- A landing page with several options: create student, check student, provide the total number of students registered, etc.

2.- Warning messages that should be raised in the event of:
[[[
    2.1. No students are registered, and the database is empty. Please add students first 
    2.2.- unexistent students based on the provided ID
    2.3.- The form is incomplete during the student creation, update, or removal. 
]]]

3.- To create a new student in the system:
[[[
  3.1.- the web page offers a "Register Student" feature, it is a form where all the fields (student object parameters) are required except for the "employer" parameter, which is optional, and the student ID. This latter will be autogenerated by the backend, an increasing number of 9 digits.
   3.2.- the user adds the information to the form and sends it to the backend server. 
   3.3.- The server replies with the result of the DB update, whether it is successful or not.
]]]

4.- To remove a student from the system,
[[[
   4.1.- the user should provide the name as an input parameter, 
   4.2.- the server replies back with tall students with similar names. 
   4.3- the user should confirm providing the student based on the first request result. 
   4.4.- the server asks twice for a confirmation of removal and a notification of successful deletion.
   4.5.- The server replies with the result of the DB update, whether it is successful or not.
]]]

5.- To update a student in the system, a similar procedure as above:
[[[
   5.1.- the user provides the name and selects the student ID to update the desired student.
   5.2.- the web page offers an "UpdateStudent form" where only the select parameters to update (a toggle button per parameter) will enable an input text that the user will fill in and submit to the back server for a table update.
   5.3.- The server replies with the result of the DB update, whether it is successful or not.
]]]

## Architechture
/* Image Here */

## Instalation steps
    1.- Unzip the packege file
    2.- Install all the Node.js dependecies (npm install) in the subdirectory "./node.js"
    3.- Build the Docker-Compose stack (docker-compose up --build -d)
    4.- Test the application going to "http://localhost:8080/"